Tournafy Product Requirement Document
1. Product Overview
Product Name: Tournafy
Category: Sports Match,Series and Tournament Hosting App
Prepared By: Anees Hamid – 23L-0671
Instructor: Mr. Rana Waqas Ali
Institution: FAST NUCES, Lahore
1.1 Summary
Tournafy is a sports match, series and tournament hosting app primarily focusing on cricket and football/futsal. A basic overview of the features is:
* Offline match, series and tournament hosting using firestore
* Online match, series and tournament hosting using firebase
* Match, Series and Tournament can be configured according to requirements
The product takes inspiration from espncricinfo and sofascore and aims to provide that experience to casual players, athletes without much facilities and people who host tournaments.
The product aims to provide a combined way to host matches, series and tournaments offline and online with seamless integration.
2. Goals and Objectives


Goal
	Description
	Deliverable
	G1: Cricket and Futsal/Football Matches.
	Provide an interface to host cricket and futsal/football matches.
	For Cricket custom number of over or regular formats such as t20, odi, custom number of overs, wide on/off etc.
For Futsal/Football custom number of players, total time, offside on/off etc.
	G2: Hosting Tournaments
	Provide an interface to host Tournaments for cricket and futsal/football.
	Tournaments can be round robin, table and knockout or only knockout. Knockouts can have customized brackets as well. Any number of teams allowed but must be managed by host. Provide Randomization button at start of tournament.
Multiple Hosts can host the tournament.
	G3: Hosting Series
	Provide an interface to host Series for cricket and futsal/football.
	Series can have any number of matches.
	G4: Offline and online integration
	Matches, Series and Tournaments can be hosted offline.
Online Integration also available but to host matches, series or tournaments user must login.
	Offline Storage using firestore and online integration using firebase. Previously offline stuff can also be uploaded online. Online matches, Series and Tournaments can be seen in real time similar to espncricinfo and sofascore using link provided by host.
Online matches can be seen by any user (logged in or not) but hosting can only be done after logging in.
	G5: Authentication
	Authentication required for hosting stuff online but not viewing online or hosting stuff offline.
	Authentication done via google, facebook etc. or by signup/login. Cannot be done via phone number.
	

3. Target Users
* Athletes who play cricket and futsal/football locally and without much facilities.
* People who play cricket or fustal/football casually.
* People who host tournaments for cricket and futsal on a smaller scale.
* Schools, Colleges and Universities etc. management when inter/intra sports tournaments happen.
5. System Architecture
3.1 Frontend
* XML (using material-you designing)
3.2 Backend
* Java
3.3 Database
* Firestore (Offline)
* Firebase (Online)
3.4 IDE
* Android Studio
6. UX/UI Overview
Navigation bar at bottom.
Fragments on the rest of the page.
6.1 Main Screens
These are screens initially seen on each fragment.
Name
	Description
	Home
	Shows the user online and offline stuff hosted by them. Has a floating action button that can host offline.
Has filtering options for matches, tournaments and series.
Long Click to upload the match, series, tournament online but requires auth.
	Search
	Searches for current online matches, tournaments and series via link provided by host.
	Host Online
	Requires Authentication. After Authentication allows user to host matches online and has new match, tournament and series button.
	Settings
	Provides various configurable setting for user profile (if authenticated) and other settings such as dark/light mode etc.
	

6.2 Other Screens


Name
	Cricket Match Details
	Football Match Details
	Tournament Details
	Series Details
	Host new Match
	Host new Series
	Host new Tournament
	

6.3 Cricket Match Details Fragments


Name
	Description
	Live Score
	Only viewable to host. Host adds the match updates going on by using the interface here.
	Details
	Current Batsmen, bowler, current run rate, required run rate, list of overs. Basically similar to cricinfo match details.
	Scorecard
	The scorecard of the match
	Lineups
	lineups
	Table/Knockout/Series (if any)
	If a match is part of any tournament/series show, else dont show.
	

6.4 Football Match Details Fragments


Name
	Description
	Live Score
	Only viewable to host. Host adds the match updates going on by using the interface here.
	Details
	Timeline for goals scored, yellow, red cards and events etc.
	Statistics
	The statistics for the football match, similar to sofasore.
	Lineups
	lineups
	Table/Knockout (if any)
	If match is part of any tournament/series show, else dont show.
	

6.5 Tournament Details Fragments


Name
	Description
	Knockout
	Show Floating action button to add teams (host only). Can remove teams as well (host only). Show brackets for matches and swipe right or left to go to next (eg quarter final to semi final)
	Table(if any)
	If table is there it means no knockout can happen before completing group stage. After group stage is completed automatically add teams to knockout
	Top Players
	Shows Top Players such as most runs, wickets or most goals, assists, save etc
	



6.6 Series Details Fragments


Name
	Description
	Details
	Show Series Details such as which team has won how many. Can increase the number of matches(host only). Only 2 team in a series.
	Top Players
	Shows Top Players such as most runs, wickets or most goals, assists, save etc
	



6.7 Host new Match


Name
	Description
	Add Details
	Add details such as match type, number of overs or time etc
	Add Teams
	Add players on each side (can be unequal)
	



6.8 Host new Series


Name
	Description
	Add Details
	Add details such as series type, number of overs or time etc
	Add Teams
	Add players on each side
	

6.9 Host new Tournament


Name
	Description
	Add Details
	Add details such as series type, number of overs or time etc
	Add Teams
	Add players of the participating team
	Set Matches/Randomize
	Can view the teams added in bracket format or table format. Can modify who goes where before tournament begins. Can randomize as well.
	Co-Host
	User adds link to autherize as co host
	

7. Future Enhancements
* Adding support for e-sports.
* Adding new sports such as padel, hockey, basketball etc


8. EERD